8 Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides
delivery platforms, including Postmates, Deliv, and DHL MyWays (Alnaggar et al., 2021). In addition
topackagedelivery,thedrivercantakeon-demandpassengerriderequestsfromaplatform.Accordingly,
the driver is paidrt per unit distance of passenger ride.2 However, unlike package delivery to known
customer locations, passenger ride requests follow a stochastic process with uncertain pickup and
drop-off locations (the locations are only realized upon request arrival). Specifically, we assume that
the ride arrival process follows a Poisson distribution with rateλ, and both the origins and destinations
are distributed uniformly over the service region. Here,λis taken to be exogenous, allowing us to
focus on the logistics tradeoff between package delivery and on-demand rides. Understanding the
platform-driver interactions is important to study the general management problems of co-modality
systems, which we leave as a future research question. To prioritize the passenger ride experience, we
assume the driver can not make deliveries when the passenger is already on board.
The driver desires a policyπto coordinate package delivery and on-demand rides. Specifically, a
coordination policy decides whether to accept an on-demand ride based on its origin and destination
and the remaining packages to be delivered at any given time point. The goal is to maximize the
expected revenue rate, which is defined by
Rπ(n,λ) = E[Revenue]
E[Total delivery time], (1)
where the total delivery time includes travel time for delivery, passenger ride time, and connecting
time between the two types of jobs (from a package delivery location to a passenger pickup location
or from a passenger drop-off location to a package delivery location). The revenue function(1) stands
for the long-run average revenue rate for the driver. We assume the delivery processes on different
days are independent of each other, so one can treat the delivery process on each day as a renewal
process. Then, according to the renewal reward theorem (Ross, 2014, Proposition 7.3), the empirical
average of reward converges, almost surely and in mean, to(1). Note that the expected revenue rate
can be interpreted as the driver productivity that measures the operational efficiency of co-modality.
As a benchmark, the expected revenue rate of package delivery (referred to as the pure delivery
policy, PD), when the driver does not take any passenger ride requests, can be estimated as
RPD (n,λ) = vnrp
β
√
nA
=v√nrp
βR,
where β
√
nA approximates the expected TSP travel distance incurred to visitn locations in the
service region of areaA, following the Beardwood-Halton Hammersley (BHH) Theorem (Beardwood
et al., 1959).
2Whereas the ride-hailing fare may include a fixed component, the main differentiating revenue structure between
scheduled delivery jobs and ride-hailing jobs lies in the per-mile trip fare. Our result will hold if we introduce a fixed
revenue part to ride-hailing trips.