Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides 9
The uncertainty of passenger ride requests poses a major challenge to the efficient coordination of
the two types of jobs. While the driver can follow a predetermined route for package delivery (e.g.,
using a TSP solution), the presence of random pickup and drop-off locations causes unavoidable
detours and requires trading off the route efficiency and the uplift of revenue carefully. This problem
may be modeled as a dynamic program, where the state consists of the locations of all undelivered
packages as well as the passenger’s pick-up and drop-off points. This general formulation does not
impose restrictions on the driver’s visit sequence through the package locations (e.g., no need to
adhere to the original TSP tour), and tracking each package’s exact location is essential because the
spatial distribution of packages affects the future coordination policy. The resulting formulation is
difficult to analyze because (i) the state space is high given the number of package locations; (ii) the
acceptance policy (of on-demand rides) needs to be state-dependent. This motivates us to seek a
tractable coordination policy with performance guarantees.
In the next subsection, we propose a novel zoning-based coordination policy that facilitates the
assessment of the value of joint package delivery and on-demand rides.
2.2. A Zoning-Based Coordination Policy
Under this policy, the entire service region is partitioned intoN zones (subregions). We considerN =k2
fork∈{m∈N+|1≤m≤√n}, so the zones are of the same size, and they are evenly distributed across
the service region. We note that this is mainly for ease of analysis because the partition for a general
number of zones does not yield a clear characterization. To simplify the analysis but without loss of
generality, we further assume that each zone contains the same number of packages, i.e.,n/N. We note
that this is mainly a technical assumption, and when the package distribution exhibits more variability,
our result can serve as a first-order approximation for analyzing the policy performance. Moving
beyond the uniform distribution, the design of the partition can adapt to spatially heterogeneous
package demand and ride arrivals, using techniques from Ouyang (2007); Carlsson et al. (2024). We
provide examples of such partitions in Appendix A. Within each zone, the driver follows the optimal
route through the package delivery locations; the driver also incurs additional connecting trips to
travel between different zones.
Without on-demand rides, the above zoning algorithm has claimed both theoretical and practical
significance for solving TSPs. The seminal work of Karp (1977) shows that zoning algorithms enjoy
a relative error ofO((n/N)−1/2) in approximating the optimal TSP length. Moreover, they yield
near-optimal performance when combined with other TSP heuristics. In practice, zoning algorithms
are often preferable because of their interpretability and ease of implementation. Based on an extensive
analysis of Amazon’s delivery routes, Arslan and Abay (2021) observe that the majority of Amazon