Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides 19
Specifically, we map each point inX of problem(6) to the centroid of a square:xi is associated with
a square with inradiusri (the inradius of a square equals half of its edge length), which is denoted by
S(xi,ri). Similar to problem(6), the goal is to identifyK squares placed onA to maximize their
average edge length while ensuring (i) their centroids lie within or on the boundary ofA and (ii) they
are nonoverlapping. Formally, the proposed region covering problem can be stated as follows
G2(K) = max
X={x1,...,xK}⊂A
r1,...,rK≥0
2
√
2
K
K∑
k=1
rk :S(xi,ri)∩S(xj,rj) =∅ ∀i̸=j, (7)
where the objective function has a scaling coefficient of2
√
2 because the distance between the centroids
of two neighboring squares is
√
2 times the sum of their inradiuses, and each square’s inradius is
counted twice. Note that this problem is not exactly a region covering problem because the squares
do not necessarily coverA: the non-overlapping constraint is softer than a coverage constraint (such
relaxation is necessary because the general region covering problem is not always feasible). We show
that G2(K) defined above is at least as large asG1(K) for K≥2.
Proposition 4. G1(K)≤G2(K) for anyK≥2.
The key to establishing Proposition 4 is to show that the optimal solution to(6) constitutes a
feasible solution to(7) by setting the radiusrk properly. Notably,G1(K) coincides withG2(K) for
certain values ofK, e.g., they are both equal to
√
2R when K = 2. Due to Proposition 4,G2(K) can
also serve as an upper bound of the expected inter-zone delivery distance under the equal-probability
assumption. Compared toG1(K), G2(K) renders a more structured solution, which also facilitates
computational evaluation and inspires an interpretable closed-form approximation. We show in
Appendix F that an optimal solutionX∗to problem(7) would have the outermost points ofX∗to be
on the boundary ofA and include the vertices ofA when K≥4. Based on this property, a relaxed
problem (7) can be solved as a convex program efficiently, which yields an upper bound ofG2(K).
Interestingly, we find that the computed upper bounds follow very closely the function in the form of
√
2R/(
√
K−1), as shown in Figure 4.
Observation 1. G2(K) is approximately less than or equal to
√
2R√
K−1 for K≥4.
The above observation is not surprising because the specified function corresponds to a simple
rule of placing squares when
√
K∈N. Specifically, we can design
√
K×
√
K identical squares and
organize them into
√
K rows, each with
√
K squares. Each row is parallel to the edge of the service
region, and the centroids of the first and last row are located on the two edges. Because the edge
length isR, the inradius of the squares isR/2(
√
K−1), which leads to the desired upper bounds.
Figure 4 suggests that this functional form provides an excellent approximation for all values ofK,
incurring an average relative error of2.6% for K∈[6, 200].