Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides 7
schedule to facilitate passenger and freight movement. Masson et al. (2017) and Azcuy et al. (2021)
study a two-tier urban delivery system that leverages existing transit routes (bus routes or tramways)
to move goods to intermediate transfer locations before being delivered by dedicated freight vehicles.
However, the efficiency of such integrated systems hinges on the connectivity of transit networks,
which may lack the capacity and investment to support its self-sufficiency (Cochrane et al., 2017).
Closest to our setting is the stream of literature on co-modality using on-demand transportation
vehicles. In Li et al. (2014), the authors propose a Share-a-Ride problem that dispatches taxis to
transport people and deliver parcels at the same time. They formulate the problem as a mixed integer
linear program (MILP) and develop several heuristics to solve the problem. This framework has been
extended to account for practical constraints and uncertain travel times (Nguyen et al., 2015; Li et al.,
2016). Due to the complexity of the problem, more recent studies resort to reinforcement learning
and agent-based simulations to prescribe solutions in real-time, see, e.g., Li et al. (2022); Chen et al.
(2023a); Fehn et al. (2023). Although these studies provide promising computational methods (or
heuristics) and case studies, there lacks a coherent and generalizable understanding of the potential
of co-modality in integrating package delivery jobs and on-demand passenger ride requests. Moreover,
unlike the existing literature that assumes the delivery requests pop up along with passenger ride
requests (so their main differences only lie in the service time constraint), we focus on the setting
where the driver has preloaded packages with known destinations, which is common for e-commerce
applications.
2. Model Setup and Coordination Policy
In this section, we introduce the basic setting for modeling package delivery and on-demand rides,
followed by the proposed coordination policy.
2.1. Model Setup
We consider a driver who needs to delivern packages (on average) in a service regionA. The packages
are preloaded from a warehouse/delivery station. Without loss of generality, we assume the service
region is of a diamond shape with edge lengthR, in which the travel distance is measured in the
ℓ1-distance (Manhattan distance). As a result, the points on the periphery of the service region share
the same distance ofR/
√
2 from the centroid (see Figure 1), and the area of the service region is
A =R2. Package locations are assumed to follow a homogeneous two-dimensional point process with
rateγsuch thatn =γR2. Note that this assumption is for analytical tractability, and our coordination
policy can work for generally distributed package locations, which will be discussed in Section 2.2.
The driver travels with a fixed speed ofv. Each delivered package contributes a unit revenue ofrp
to the driver. The package-based compensation scheme is adopted by the majority of crowdsourcing