Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides 11
(a) First passenger ride
 (b) Second passenger ride
Figure 1 The zoning policy withN = 4 is run with two passenger rides: the first coming from left to top and the
second coming from top to right. The dashed (yellow) line indicates the delivery route within a zone,
whereas the (red) solid line connects the pickup and drop-off locations of an on-demand ride.
Remark 1. The proposed zoning policy can be viewed as a static decision rule, where the control
parameters such asαand t0 are fixed. Note that increasingαor t0 results in more ride-hailing
opportunities at the expense of higher pickup time for the passengers. In practice, these parameters
are likely controlled by the platform and can be dynamically adjusted in response to ride arrival
uncertainties. Moreover, if the market condition is time-varying, we may design time-dependent zoning
policies, where the driver’s response behavior is time-dependent, or re-solving policies that reoptimize
the zoning based on the updated information.
Remark 2. The rationale behind restricting the ride destination to unvisited zones is to maximize
the synergy between package delivery and passenger rides: taking rides to unvisited zones reduces
(profitless) inter-zone travels that otherwise will be incurred during package delivery. Relaxing this
restriction can open up more ride opportunities at the expense of adding detours and lengthening the
total delivery time. In Appendix B, we simulate the zoning policy that allows coming to previously
visited zones and show it is less promising than the proposed zoning policy.
3. Four-Zone Policy
To shed light on the efficiency of the zoning-based coordination policy, we first study a special class
of the zoning policy withN = 4equal-size zones formed within the service region, as illustrated in
Figure 1. In this case, the constructed zones are symmetric, in the sense that the distances between
the centroids of any pair of zones are equal to
√
2
2 R in ℓ1-distance. Following the uniform distribution