12 Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides
assumption, each zone observes the same passenger request arrival rate ofλ/4. We call this policy the
four-zone policy (FZ).
Because the driver only accepts ride requests going to a zone that is yet to be delivered, the
probability of taking up a passenger ride upon finishing the package delivery in thei-th visited zone is
P(accept a passenger ride request when delivering in theith visited zone)
=1−P(no requests with a drop-off location from the(4−i) unvisited zones) = 1−exp(−(4−i)α2λt0/4),
where α2λis the passenger ride arrival rate to the admissable area that is withinαRfrom the final
delivery location and(4−i)/4 is the probability that the drop-off location is from an unvisited zone.
We introduce the key components of the driver’s travel distance under the four-zone policy:
(I) The first component,L1, captures the expected passenger ride distance between a random
pickup and a drop-off location from different zones, which can be computed asc1(α)R. The
dependence ofL1 on αis due to the fact that the passenger ride origin location is affected
by the maximum pickup distancer. For a given value ofα, we show in Appendix C how to
evaluateL1 by integrating the density function of pickup and drop-off locations. To simplify
the integral, we approximate the distribution of the drop-off location by a uniform distribution
over the service zone; technically, the drop-off location is only uniformly distributed over
the unvisited zones, but the randomness of the unvisited zones makes the drop-off location
approximately uniform across the whole region (see Appendix C for numerical comparisons).
(II) The second component,L2, characterizes the expected (additional) pickup and drop-off distance
required to serve the passenger ride request. Specifically, the passenger pickup trip starts
from the last package delivery location towards the origin of the passenger request, of which
the distance can be computed asα2R. The drop-off distance accounts for the trip from the
passenger drop-off location (destination) to the nearest package delivery location in the same
zone, which we can compute asc2R/√n. We formalize these relationships in Proposition 1
(the proofs of the technical results in the paper are provided in Appendix D).
Proposition 1. Suppose package locations follow a homogeneous two-dimensional point
process with rateγsuch thatn =γR2. Under the proposed zoning policy, the expected pickup
and drop-off distance for each passenger ride request is
L2 =
√
2
3 αR+
√π
2
√
2
R√n =α2R +c2
R√n,
whereα2 =
√
2
3 αand c2 =
√π
2
√
2.
The inverse square root function in the expected drop-off distance reveals thecomplementarity
between package delivery and on-demand rides: a greater number of package delivery locations