Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides 31
As the package volume grows, pure package delivery will emerge as the best policy due to its scaling
efficiency. Our result supports the conjecture that co-modal systems may be more cost-efficiently
implemented in low-demand areas with the intuition that building a standalone freight or mobility
system would be too costly without economies of scale (Cleophas et al., 2019). However, the optimal
way of coordination is more nuanced, as the optimal number of zones can vary across different regimes
of package volumes and passenger ride arrival rates.
More work should be done to investigate the co-modal operations. One may generalize our single-
driver setting to the case with multiple drivers. If the drivers are assigned to non-overlapping areas,
we may separately analyze each driver following the proposed framework in this paper. However,
in certain scenarios, assigning drivers to serve overlapping regions (Ledvina et al., 2022) may be
more efficient, under which the optimal coordination policy is intriguing. One can also incorporate
fixed pickup and delivery time into the calculation, which may weaken the economics of scale of
package delivery and favor the coordination policy. Another important extension is to model the
role of the platform and its interaction with drivers in co-modal transportation systems. Similar to
ride-hailing platforms, co-modal operators can utilize multiple levers, such as surge price and dynamic
wage payment, to influence crowdsourcing driver behaviors and the system throughput. Notably, the
package assignment decisions have to account for package distributions in addition to imbalances
between ride demand and driver supply, which may result in new optimization problems. We believe
some variants of the zoning policy can be useful for coordinating drivers and assigning packages.
References
A Martínez, Danielle Kaye. 2023. Court in Manhattan to hear minimum wage case in-
volving NYC, food delivery workers. https://www.npr.org/2023/08/03/1191792959/
court-in-manhattan-to-hear-minimum-wage-case-involving-nyc-food-delivery-drivers.
Accessed on August 4, 2023.
Afèche, Philipp, Zhe Liu, Costis Maglaras. 2023. Ride-hailing networks with strategic drivers: the
impact of platform control capabilities on performance. Manufacturing & Service Operations
Management 25(5) 1890–1908.
Agarwal, Saharsh, Deepa Mani, Rahul Telang. 2023. The impact of ride-hailing services on congestion:
Evidence from indian cities.Manufacturing & Service Operations Management25(3) 862–883.
Alnaggar, Aliaa, Fatma Gzara, James H Bookbinder. 2021. Crowdsourced delivery: A review of
platforms and academic literature.Omega 98 102139.
Alon, Noga, Daniel J. Kleitman. 1986. Covering a square by small perimeter rectangles.Discrete &
computational geometry 1 1–7.