4 Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides
request depends on the proximity of its origin and whether its destination zone has already been
delivered. This coordination policy enjoys the desirable theoretical and practical properties of zoning
in optimal route planning, easing the need for real-time re-optimization. Furthermore, it goes beyond
the existing partitioning research in logistics to present a unique way to balance delivery efficiency and
service flexibility of ride-hailing. Notably, varying the number of zones changes the level of flexibility
of the driver in responding to on-demand rides. By analyzing the stochastic driver trajectory, we
characterize the expected revenue rate of the zoning policy.
1.1.3. Optimal Zoning Policy and Its Performance Guarantee. We first examine a special
case where the service region is divided into four symmetric zones and derive exact conditions under
which the zoning policy outperforms the pure package delivery policy. For the general case where the
number of partitioned zones needs to be optimized, we develop approximation schemes to estimate
the trip distances between zones at different system states by exploiting a connection to the coverage
problems in geometry that can be of independent interest. This gives rise to a lower bound of the
expected revenue rate function that is asymptotically tight for a large number of zones. We prove
that the revenue maximizer of the lower bound only takes three forms: the pure delivery policy, the
four-zone policy, and the flexible switching policy (the driver can switch between package delivery
and on-demand rides constantly). We then provide theoretical and numerical evidence to show that
focusing on the above three policies can get performance close to that of the optimal zoning policy.
Furthermore, we develop a full-information benchmark that gives an upper bound of the revenue rate
of any coordination policy. We characterize the performance ratio of the optimal zoning policy to this
benchmark and show that the zoning policy is close to optimal for a large number of packages.
1.1.4. V alue of Co-Modality with Zoning. Our analysis offers a set of insights for operating
co-modal transportation systems and understanding the value of coordinating package delivery and
on-demand rides. First, we show that the zoning policy outperforms the pure package delivery policy
when the package density is not too high and the profit from on-demand rides is large enough.
Crucially, a higher package volume does not favor coordination; instead, the value of coordination
diminishes relatively. In addition, we characterize the minimum revenue improvement of the optimal
zoning policy against the pure delivery policy and delineate its dependence on the system parameters.
We complement our analysis with a numerical study with parameters calibrated using the New York
City taxi data. The numerical results validate our analysis and provide hints on how the revenue rate
evolves with package volume and ride arrival rate in practical scenarios. In particular, we find that
the revenue improvement from coordination can be up to 60% when the delivery capacity is very
limited, which tends to be the case for crowdsourcing vehicles. Last but not least, the optimal zoning