Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides: A
Zoning Policy and Analysis
Junyu Cao
McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin. junyu.cao@mccombs.utexas.edu
Sheng Liu
Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto. Sheng.Liu@rotman.utoronto.ca
Cities are facing mounting pressure from the surging demand for package delivery and on-demand ride
services. Meanwhile, more drivers are empowered by platforms to provide flexible transportation and logistics
services with their own vehicles. Integrating freight and passenger transportation services, termed co-modality,
has been promoted as a promising means to improve vehicle utilization, driver productivity, and logistics
efficiency. Motivated by these issues, we investigate the value of co-modality to the driver in the context of
joint package delivery and ride-hailing from a revenue-maximizing perspective. The driver must decide when
and how on-demand ride jobs should be coordinated with package deliveries. Because the general optimal
coordination problem is intractable, we develop a zoning-based coordination policy that allows us to capture
the synergies between these two types of jobs and characterize its revenue performance analytically. We derive
an asymptotically tight lower bound on the revenue rate with approximations and identify three optimal
solutions for this bound: the pure package delivery policy, the four-zone policy (limited ride opportunities),
and the switching policy (flexible ride opportunities). Our analysis reveals that co-modality is most beneficial
when package volume is relatively low, while limited flexibility can be optimal when ride profit and package
volume are moderate. In addition, we analytically quantify the optimality gap between these three policies
and the true optimal zoning policy; numerically, they achieve over 99.7% of the optimal revenue. We also
develop a full-information benchmark that helps us characterize the potential optimality loss of the optimal
zoning policy. Lastly, we complement our analysis using numerical studies based on taxi data from New York
City and evaluate the value of coordination in practical scenarios.
Key words: co-modality, ride-hailing, logistics, smart city operations.
1. Introduction
As urbanization accelerates and e-commerce prospers, the demand for delivery and ride services
continues growing steadily. Many cities worldwide are overwhelmed by vehicles moving passengers
and goods, raising heightened concerns for congestion and sustainability. NYC Department of
Transportation (2018) report that the travel speeds in the Manhattan Central Business District (CBD)
of New York City saw a decline of 21% from 2010 to 2016, reflecting the growing demand for the
city’s road network. In particular, the rise of on-demand transportation platforms and crowdsourcing
delivery services (such as parcel delivery or grocery delivery) complicate the policymaker’s efforts in
1