Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides 5
policy’s revenue rate achieves at least the same scaling pattern as the pure package delivery policy
with respect to package density.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 1.2 discusses related literature. Section
2 introduces the model setup for coordinating package delivery and on-demand rides, followed by the
proposed zoning-based coordination policy. Section 3 analyzes the four-zone policy and its optimality
conditions. Section 4 studies the general zoning policy and characterizes its structure under different
market conditions, supported by a numerical study. Section 5 concludes the paper.
1.2. Literature Review
Our work on coordinating package delivery and on-demand rides is related to the three streams of
literature: last-mile delivery (with shared mobility), ride-hailing, and co-modality in transportation.
1.2.1. Last-mile Delivery. Last-mile delivery has received growing attention due to the rapid
evolution of e-commerce. The most relevant to our work is the line of research on shared mobility for
last-mile delivery, where shared passenger vehicles are dispatched to deliver packages (see practical
examples such as Amazon Flex (2023)). Qi et al. (2018) consider a shared-mobility logistics setting
that features a central warehouse and multiple subregions. They decide the optimal size (number) of
the delivery subregions to minimize the total delivery cost under a continuous approximation scheme.
Arslan et al. (2019) formulate a dynamic pickup and delivery problem that matches delivery jobs
to both dedicated and ad hoc drivers. They apply a rolling-horizon approach that handles both the
dynamically arriving jobs and ad hoc drivers. Cao et al. (2020) develop a framework that combines
the use of ride-sharing platforms with traditional in-house van delivery systems for optimizing last-
mile delivery. They formulate a discrete sequential packing problem, in which the drivers select
bundles of packages and collect them from the warehouse in a decentralized manner. Fatehi and
Wagner (2022) propose a robust crowdsourcing optimization model to study labor planning and
pricing for crowdsourced last-mile delivery systems. Behrendt et al. (2023) consider a scheduling
problem for the crowdsourced delivery platform, in which a mix of scheduled and ad hoc couriers
serves dynamically arriving pickup and delivery orders. They present a prescriptive machine learning
method that combines simulation optimization for offline training and a neural network for online
solution prescription. These papers mainly treat crowdsourcing couriers as an additional supply with
self-scheduling behaviors and do not consider the possibility of coordinating package delivery and
on-demand rides.
In addition, our work contributes to the emerging literature on same-day and food delivery operations
management (Mao et al., 2019; Yildiz and Savelsbergh, 2019; Liu et al., 2021; Chen and Hu, 2023;
Feldman et al., 2023; Besbes and Cachon, 2023; Carlsson et al., 2024). From a methodological