Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides 37
Appendix A: Example Partitions for Heterogeneous Package Demand and Ride Arrivals
The proposed zoning policy leverages simple equal-area partitions to balance package demand in the
uniform case withN =k2. For general cases with heterogeneous package demand (distribution) and
any integer value ofN, there are partitioning techniques to maintain the same package demand or
delivery distance across zones. For example, let the package demand density function be
√
x2
1 +x2
2,
where x1 and x2 are the x and y coordinates, respectively. Figure 10 presents an equal-demand
partition for 7 zones using the workload-balancing zoning algorithm developed by Ouyang (2007).
Furthermore, it is possible to balance the delivery workload and ride-request demand at the same
time. To do so, we can employ the technique recently developed in Carlsson et al. (2024), where a
partitioning algorithm that combines ham-sandwich cuts and fan cuts is developed to balance two
measurable functions in 2D (such a partition is proved to always exist). As an example, Figure 11
illustrates the resulting partition that balances
√
x2
1 +x2
2 and x2
1x2
2 at the same time.
Figure 10 The partition that balances
√
x2
1 +x2
2 with N = 7 zones using the balancing algorithm from Ouyang
(2007).
Appendix B: Relaxing the Restriction of Ride Destinations
In this section, we simulate the performance of the proposed zoning policy and the zoning policy
that allows coming to previously visited zones (termedflexible zoning policy), of which the revenue
performance and total delivery time are summarized in Table 2. Specifically, we setn = 50and choose
a relatively high passenger revenue raterp = 5 (the package revenue is normalized to be 1). Table 2
presents the revenue (delivery time) ratio between the flexible zoning policy and the proposed zoning
policy, as denoted byR′/R (T′/T). We observe that the flexible zoning policy results in a lower
revenue rate than the proposed zoning policy (R′/R< 1) whenα2λt0∈{1, 2}or N∈{20, 30}. The
flexible zoning policy only outperforms the proposed zoning policy when both the arrival rate and the
number of zones are large, and the improvement is less than 3%.