10 Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides
drivers visit customers in a sequence of zones and conclude that zoning is critical for improving
delivery efficiency.
We now describe how zoning can be extended for co-modal logistics in the presence of on-demand
rides. During package delivery within a zone, the driver starts screening passenger rides once there
are t0 minutes left until the completion of delivery jobs in that zone. A passenger ride is accepted if
(i) the pickup location is within a distance ofr =αR/
√
2 from the final delivery location3 and (ii) the
drop-off location is in a zone that the driver has not delivered.4 The distancer can be interpreted as
the maximum allowable pickup distance, and the arrival rate of the admissible rides isα2λ. The driver
will serve the accepted ride, if any, after the package deliveries are completed in the zone. Therefore,
the screening timet0 together with pick-up distancer affect the passenger waiting time and can
be adjusted to meet service quality constraints.5 If no rides are accepted, the driver moves to the
next unvisited zone for package delivery following a prespecified sequencing rule. In the remainder of
the paper, we assume the “nearest-neighbor” rule is adopted unless otherwise stated, e.g., the driver
travels to the nearest unvisited zone for package delivery if no qualified rides are received.
Under the zoning policy, the number of zones indicates the maximum number of on-demand rides a
driver can accept during the package delivery process: the driver can take up toN−1 rides whenN
zones are in place. In other words, more zones imply more flexibility for the driver to serve on-demand
rides, which manifests the unique role of zoning in the co-modal application. Accordingly, one can
impose additional constraints onN to satisfy work hours or labor constraints so the total expected
delivery time is not too long. In extreme cases, ifN = 1, the driver does not take any rides, and no
extra working hours are incurred.
Figure 1 depicts one realization of the zoning-based coordination policy with four zones (left, top,
right, and bottom zones). In this example, the driver starts from the left zone and first delivers
packages within its boundary. Upon finishing all delivery jobs in the left zone, the driver accepts
a passenger ride that ends in the top zone; after completing this ride, the driver moves to deliver
packages there before accepting another ride to the right zone. Then, the driver makes package
deliveries within the right zone and travels to the bottom zone (the last unvisited zone) for the
remaining package deliveries. In this case, there are no qualified passenger rides that the driver can
accept when delivering in the right zone. Therefore, the last segment of the trip does not reap the
benefit of joint package delivery and ride-hailing for this realized scenario.
3It is possible that the origin of a passenger ride request is outside the service region when the final delivery location
is close to the region boundary. We include those requests to ease the need to treat boundary cases.
4For example, Uber allows drivers to filter requests by the order destination; seehttps://www.uber.com/us/en/
drive/basics/driver-destinations/.
5Technically,t0 should be shorter than the total package delivery time in a zone, which is likely to hold for practical
scenarios.