58 Cao and Liu: Coordinate Package Delivery and On-Demand Rides
(II) When K≥4, the four vertices ofA must belong toX∗.
Proof of Proposition 8. We prove the result in two parts.
(I) To show that outermost points ofX∗must lie on the boundary ofA, it suffices to prove
that for any solutionX′(with square inradiuses{r′
1,...,r′
K}) whose outermost points do not lie
on the boundary, we can move those points to the boundary edge and keep the square inradiuses
the same, so the squaresS(x′
k,r′
k), k = 1,...,K, are still feasible to problem(7). To see this, note
that the outermost points are closest to the boundary, so moving the corresponding squares toward
the boundary (along the direction that is perpendicular to the boundary edge) would not violate
the non-overlapping constraints with respect to other squares. Therefore, the new solution with the
outermost points lying on the boundary shares the same objective value as the original solution.
(II) According to (I), whenK≥4, there exists an optimal solutionX∗with at least four points
lying on the boundary ofA (corresponding to the four edges). If there are four points on the boundary
that coincide with the vertices, the desired result follows. Suppose there is a vertex ofA that does
not belong toX∗, then letx∗
k1, x∗
k2∈X∗be the two points on the two intersecting edges ofA that
are closest to this vertex, respectively. Without loss of generality, assume this vertex is the left vertex
of the service region (as shown in Figure 21). We make the following argument.
Figure 21 Illustration ofS(x∗
k1,r∗
k1 ) andS(x∗
k2,r∗
k2 ). The two dashed lines are the two boundary edges of the
service region, of which the intersection is a vertex.
Claim: Moving eitherS(x∗
k1,r∗
k1) orS(x∗
k2,r∗
k2) toward the vertex can maintain that these two
squares do not overlap with each other.
To prove this claim, letx∗
k1 be such that it is closer (or equidistant) to the vertex thanx∗
k2 in
the x-coordinate. Then movingx∗
k1 toward the vertex (along the edge) does not change||x∗
k1−x∗
k2||